I am Taras Shevchenko. born
in 1814, Morintsy, Ukraine.
I am the foremost Ukrainian poet, prose writer,
painter, and playwright of the 19th century. I am
a major figure in the Ukrainian national revival.
I am known for being a man of universal talent.
All my life and creative work were
dedicated to the people of Ukraine.
I dreamed about the times when my country would
be a free sovereign state, where the Ukrainian
language, culture, and history would be highly
valued, and the people would be happy and free.
Born a serf, I was freed in 1838 while a student
at the St. Petersburg Academy of Fine Arts.
My first collection of poems, entitled
Kobzar, expressed the historicism and
the folkloristic interests of the Ukrainian
Romantics, but my poetry soon moved away from
nostalgia for Cossack’s life to a more
somber portrayal of Ukrainian history,
particularly in the long poem "Haidamaks".
I taught visual arts at Kyiv University and
engaged in national activities and writing
the poems such as, "Dream," "Caucasus," and
"Epistle," which satirized the oppression of
Ukraine by Russia and prophesied a revolution.
This led to my exile by Russian authorities
and compulsory military service.
Though forbidden to write or paint, I
clandestinely wrote a few lyrical poems
during the first years of my exile. I had a
revival of creativity after my release in 1857.
Later, my poems started treating historical
and moral issues, both Ukrainian and universal.
I was allowed to return from exile and managed
to come to Ukraine in 1859, yet I was refused
the right to live in my homeland permanently
and was forced to return to Petersburg.
My health had worsened during my ten-year-long
exile, leading to my death in early 1861.
My name is well-known in the world - monuments
of me were erected in numerous countries,
and my literary works were translated
into almost all languages of the world.
I hope people still believe that words and art
will eventually or later outlive guns and wounds.